# GradualizerEx

Adapts Gradualizer to work with the Elixir applications. This package is focused on presenting errors generated by Gradualizer in Elixir syntax.

Also delivers a mix task that runs the Gradualizer on the Elixir project:
> mix gradualizer

## Problem with abstract code generated from Elixir

The Elixir AST stores literals as themselves. Thus the abstract code generated from Elixir doesn't have information about the line of the literals. This lack of information makes it hard to localize the error in a code because the line is set to 0.

To overcome this problem GradualizerEx reads the abstract code from beam files, then traverses it and fills the missing lines. The lines are taken from the corresponding token or from the parent form.
## Progress

### Mix task
For now, this task localizes all project beams and runs GradualizerEx on each file. What's more, it tries to import all dependencies to Gradualizer. Umbrella project is supported. 

##### TODO
- Support options,
- Ensure that deps are imported correctly to the Gradualizer.

### Printing errors
The type errors are highlighted in the Elixir code. Erlang pretty printers are still used in the error descriptions.


##### TODO
- Implement expr pretty printer for Elixir,
- Implement type pretty printer for Elixir.

### Specyfing lines in expressions
Each form has a corresponding mapper. On each form is invoked a mapper function which specifies the line when is missing and also runs mappers on the children of the form.

Firstly the expr with missing line obtains the line after the parent. Then the tokens are browsed to specify the line more precisely. When the corresponding token is found the line is taken and assigned to the expression. Otherwise, we assume that the expression was generated and leave it with the parent line.

Currently mappers for the most forms, expressions and literals are ready:
  - function [x]
  - fun [x] 
  - clause [x] 
  - case [x]
  - block [X] 
  - call [x]
  - match [x]
  - op [x]
  - tuple [X]
  - var [X]
  - cons (list, keyword, charlist) [X] 
  - binary [X] 
  - map [X] 
  - try [x] 
  - receive [X] 
  - atomic literals (atom, char, float, integer, string) [X] 

Most of the Elixir features as **pipes**, **with**, **if**, **unless**, **cond**, **case**, **guards**, **struct**, **range**, **record**, **list comprehension** should be handled by the above mappers.

##### TODO
- Expand Pipes support to specifying lines from tokens.
- Add more tests to detect possible malfunctions.
- Support nested modules.
- Specify lines in type specification.
